---
layout: post
title: "PG thinks you should take up new challenges too"
excerpt: "Coincidence"
tags: [Programming, Skill Building, Learning, Linux, Code, C++, BPF, eBPF, BCC, tracing, LLVM, Threads, Concurrency, async]
comments: true
---
So... if you have been following my blog regulary, or, if you at least happened
to read my [essay published on
Jan-26-2020](http://www.mycpu.org/thoughts-about-sw-dev/) I wrote about how the
only way to stay relevant is to do things slightly outside of your comfort zone
all the time. If you only take up projects that are only within your comfort
range then you risk getting in a rut or skills becoming irrelevant. As a
corollary, if you take up projects that are constantly pushing you to learn new
things, they will make you uncomfortable but helps you accumulate important
skills over time.

Turns out, Paul Graham [published an essay on
Jan-29-2020](http://www.paulgraham.com/noob.html) on Twitter.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Being a Noob: <a
href="https://t.co/Z3KIU9UtqA">https://t.co/Z3KIU9UtqA</a></p>&mdash; Paul
Graham (@paulg) <a
href="https://twitter.com/paulg/status/1222515525366026241?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January
29, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async
src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

PG has a unique perspective on the same point. He effecitvely conveys the same
message that constantly pushing yourself makes you feel uncomfortable all the
time, but this feeling is important to reduce ignorance.

Unless I completely misunderstood PG's message because I read it in
[languages](https://note.com/tokyojack/n/n199d0f1a0ec6)
[I don't](https://tldrarabiccontents.blogspot.com/2020/01/blog-post_20.html)
[understand](https://corrigan2.blogspot.com/2020/01/etre-un-noob-paul-graham.html)
we both were advocating the same thing three days from each other.

Makes me think if I stubbed out any thoughts I had about
[wealth](http://paulgraham.com/wealth.html) in the past that PG followed up on
three days later.
